            Backup4all –backup solution for network environments 
            Starting from version 2 it is easier to install Backup4all in a network environment. 
            Network administrators can install Backup4all on a single computer and enter a single 
            network registration key. All workstations can run the application from there.  
            For example if you have 25 users in a network environment, you will pay for 25 licenses 
            and you will receive a single registration key valid for all 25 users.  

            Recommended solution for:       
                 Home users (2+ computers in a network environment, i.e. using the laptop to 
                 backup onto desktop or vice-versa) 
                 Professional Services 
                 Service Industries 
                 Telecommunications 
                 Education 
                 Government 
                   
                          

            Summary: 
                  Backup4all’s network licensing provides a solution for large computer 
            environments with a special focus on the network environment. Backup4all is designed to 
            be reliable, easy-to-use and affordable. It can be used as a reliable backup solution in 
            networks with hundreds of computers connected.  
             

            Major features and Benefits: 
                      Powerful – Through its technology, Backup4all speeds up the backup 
                      process in a network environment giving you the benefit of having a 
                      reliable backup performed in a reduced amount of time. Its “multi-
                      threaded” feature allows multiple backups and restores to be performed 
                      simultaneously, while maintaining your data integrity. 
                      Trustworthy – Backup4all makes the backup process more reliable by 
                      recording the settings used for the each backup process in .ini files that are 
                      stored on the computer where it is installed and also creates catalog files to 
                      keep track of modified/removed files. After each backup, by default, 
                      Backup4all also verifies the resulted zip files to ensure that the process 
                      was successful. 
                      Easy installation and administration – Installing Backup4all is very easy 
                      and the administration process resumes itself to verifying the log files 
                      stored by Backup4all to see the status of the backup (successful/failed). 
                      The installation/administration process is easy both for network 
                      administrators and users. For example, in case of a network with several 
                      computers connected to a server, even if the configuration is done 
                      individually and saved on each of the user’s computer, Backup4all can be 






  Create PDF files without this message by purchasing novaPDF printer (http://www.novapdf.com)